.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2009-2013 by frePPLe bv
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH "FREPPLE" "1" "April 2023" "frePPLe" ""
.SH "NAME"
frepplectl \- open source production planning and scheduling
.br
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B frepplectl subcommand [options] [arguments]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
FrePPLe is an open source production planning and scheduling application.
.P
This program is a wrapper for the administrative actions of the
application.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "subcommand"
Name of the command to execute. Use 'frepplectl help' to get a list of
available subcommands.
.TP
.BI "[options] [arguments]"
Options and arguments applied to the chosen subcommand. Use 'frepplectl
help subcommand' to get a list of options and arguments applicable to a
certain subcommand.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
FREPPLE_HOME
Optionally points to a directory where the initialization
files will be searched.

.SH RETURNS
0 when successful, non-zero in case of errors

.SH "AUTHORS"
.B FrePPLe
is developed as Open Source under the MIT license.

The authors and contributors are listed on http://frepple.com.
